improved survey guide to include new changes (#2042)
port-labs/port-docs: docs/guides/all/create-surveys.md

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

> # Create Surveys

Reviewer: why change the title?

This guide is designed to help you implement and manage a complete survey experience within your organization using Port.  

> With surveys, you can collect structured feedback, track user responses, and visualize the results on a custom dashboard.  In this guide, you'll build the core components: blueprints for surveys, questions, and responses; a webhook datasource to capture survey data; a self-service action for survey participation; and a dashboard to monitor your survey metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion

With surveys, you can collect structured feedback, track user responses, and visualize the results in a custom dashboard.  
In this guide, we will build the core components:
- Blueprints for surveys, questions, and responses.
- A webhook datasource to capture survey data.
- A self-service action for survey participation.
- A dashboard to monitor survey metrics.
```

## Prerequisites

> - Complete the [Port onboarding process](https://docs.getport.io/quickstart)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Complete the [onboarding process](/getting-started/overview).
```

> - Admin access to your Port environment
> - Basic understanding of Port's [data model concepts](/build-your-software-catalog/customize-integrations/configure-data-model)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Admin access to your Port environment.
```

> ## Setting up the data model

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Set up the data model
```

> First, let's create the necessary blueprints to store survey data. We'll create three blueprints: Survey, Question, and Response.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
First, let's create the necessary blueprints to store survey data.  
We will create three blueprints: `Survey`, `Question`, and `Response`.
```

import Tabs from "@theme/Tabs"
import TabItem from "@theme/TabItem"

> # Create Surveys in your portal

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Create surveys in your portal
```

This guide is designed to help you implement and manage a complete survey experience within your organization using Port.  

With surveys, you can collect structured feedback, track user responses, and visualize the results in a custom dashboard.  

> In this guide, we will build the core components:
> - Blueprints for surveys, questions, and responses.
> - A webhook datasource to capture survey data.
> - A self-service action for survey participation.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
In this guide, we will build the core components:
- **Blueprints** for surveys, questions, and responses.
- A **webhook datasource** to capture survey data.
- A **self-service action** for survey participation.
```

> - A dashboard to monitor survey metrics.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- A **dashboard** to monitor survey metrics.
```

## Prerequisites

- Complete the [onboarding process](/getting-started/overview).
- Admin access to your Port environment.

## Set up the data model

First, let's create the necessary blueprints to store survey data.  
We will create several blueprints: `Survey Template`, `Survey`, `Question`, `Question Template`, and `Response`.

> ### Survey Template Blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Survey template blueprint
```

> 1. Navigate to your [Port Builder](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-model) page
> 2. Click the `+ Blueprint` button to create a new blueprint
> 3. Name it `Survey Template` and add the schema below:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
1. Navigate to your [Port Builder](https://app.getport.io/settings/data-model) page.

2. Click the `+ Blueprint` button to create a new blueprint.

3. Click on the `Edit JSON` button.

4. Copy the definition below and paste it in the editor:
```

<details>
<summary><b>Survey Template blueprint (click to expand)</b></summary>

```json
{
  "identifier": "survey_template",
  "title": "Survey Template",
  "icon": "GroupBy",
  "schema": {
    "properties": {
      "description": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Description"
      }
    },
    "required": []
  },
  "mirrorProperties": {},
  "calculationProperties": {},
  "aggregationProperties": {},
  "relations": {}
}
```
</details>

> ### Survey Blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Survey blueprint
```

  "icon": "Bar",
  "schema": {
    "properties": {
      "description": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Description",
        "format": "markdown"
      },
      "version": {
        "icon": "DefaultProperty",
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Version"
      },
      "start_date": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "Start date",
        "format": "date-time"
      },
      "end_date": {
        "type": "string",
        "title": "End date",
        "format": "date-time"
      }
    },
    "required": []
  },
  "mirrorProperties": {},
  "calculationProperties": {},
  "aggregationProperties": {},
  "relations": {
    "survey_template": {
      "title": "Survey Template",
      "target": "survey_template",
      "required": false,
      "many": false
    }
  }
}
```
</details>

> ### Question Template Blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Question template blueprint
```

Create a blueprint for question templates:

<details>
<summary><b>Question Template blueprint (click to expand)</b></summary>

```json
{
  "identifier": "question_template",
  "title": "Question Template",
  "icon": "Template",
  "schema": {
    "properties": {
      "numeric_question": {
        "type": "boolean",
        "title": "Numeric Question"
      }
    },
    "required": []
  },
  "mirrorProperties": {},
  "calculationProperties": {},
  "aggregationProperties": {},
  "relations": {
    "survey_template": {
      "title": "Survey Template",
      "target": "survey_template",
      "required": false,
      "many": false
    }
  }
}
```
</details>

> ### Question Blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Question blueprint
```

```
</details>

> ### Response Blueprint

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Response blueprint
```

```
</details>

> ## Adding calculation and aggregation properties

Reviewer: ```suggestion
## Add calculation and aggregation properties
```

Now that we have our basic blueprints set up, let's add calculation and aggregation properties to enable advanced metrics and analytics for our surveys.

> ### Adding Score Tracking to Question Template

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Add score tracking to question template
```
